## Keynote

<p style="text-align: center;">
**In the 'Face' of Uncertainty:<br>Charting Variability in Response to Emotional Ambiguity**  
Maital Neta, CB3, University of Nebraska—Lincoln
</p>

<div class="photo">
![](maital.png)
</div>

Our daily lives are saturated with affective value (e.g., a visit from a friend,
the ringing of an alarm clock, a beautiful sunset, a hot cup of coffee).  When
we encounter new information (new people, sounds, locations, flavors), we
readily sort this information into emotional valence categories: good or bad,
reward or threat, approach or avoid.  Facial expressions, in particular, convey
rich information about another person and the environment.  Some expressions are
clear-cut (angry face predicts threat/avoidance), whereas others are more
ambiguous, because they can readily predict both rewarding or threatening
outcomes.  For example, a surprised facial expression is associated with both
positive (a surprise visit from an old friend) and negative (hearing that a
loved one was in a car accident) information.  We and others have documented a
wide range of individual differences in 'valence bias,' or the tendency to
categorize ambiguous cues (e.g., surprised faces) as having a positive or
negative valence.  This bias appears to represent a trait-like individual
difference, as it is stable across time and across information.  Interestingly,
despite these individual differences, we have proposed an initial negativity
hypothesis, such that ambiguous cues initially activate a negative valence
representation, and that a positive representation may require a putative
regulatory mechanism to override the initial negativity.  In this talk, I will
discuss just a few of the approaches (behavioral, neuroimaging, developmental)
that we have used in the lab to examine these individual differences in valence
bias and to support our initial negativity hypothesis.

Dr.&nbsp;Neta is the director of the Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience Lab.
She received her Ph.D. in Cognitive Neuroscience from Dartmouth College in 2010,
and completed a postdoctoral fellowship in the Department of Neurology at
Washington University.  Dr.&nbsp;Neta is now an Assistant Professor in the
Department of Psychology and is a faculty member in the Center for Brain,
Biology, and Behavior (CB3) at UNL.  Her research capitalizes on a number of
methods from psychology and neuroscience to examine ambiguity resolution in the
domain of emotional facial expressions.  Specifically, although some expressions
provide clear predictive information that something good (e.g., happy) or bad
(e.g., angry) will happen, other expressions, like surprise, have predicted both
positive (e.g., birthday party) and negative (e.g., car accident) events for us
in the past.  When presented in the absence of contextual information, these
ambiguously valenced expressions can be used to delineate a valence bias:
ambiguous stimuli are stably interpreted negatively by some people and
positively by others.  The working hypothesis in the lab is that positivity
requires regulation.  In sum, her work uses neuroimaging (fMRI, resting state
fMRI), psychophysiology, and behavioral techniques, and network analyses to
examine individual differences in emotion processing and emotion regulation
across the lifespan.  This research is funded in part by an R01 from the
National Institute of Mental Health and an NSF CAREER Award.  She has received
multiple academic achievement awards, including the Harold and Esther Edgerton
Junior Faculty Award, and serves as Consulting Editor for Emotion and Social,
Cognitive, and Affective Neuroscience.

## Schedule

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Time        Event
----------- ----------------------------------------------------------
09:00–09:10 Welcome and Introductions

09:10–10:10 **Keynote**

            In the 'Face' of Uncertainty: Charting Variability in
            Response to Emotional Ambiguity<br>
			*Maital Neta<br>
			University of Nebraska—Lincoln*

10:10–01:30 Lightning Talks

10:30–11:00 Coffee Break

11:00–12:00 **Biometric Devices for Emotional Awareness in SE** <!-- – Chair: Person -->
            
            Toward Usability Problem Identification Based on User
			Emotions Derived from Facial Expressions
			(20&nbsp;min.)<br>
            *Jan Ole Johanssen, Jan Philip Bernius, and
			Bernd Bruegge<br>
			Technical University of Munich*
            
            Supporting Rapid Product Changes through Emotional
			Tracking (short paper, 20&nbsp;min.)<br>
            *Patrick Mennig, Simon Andre Scherr, and
			Frank Elberzhager<br>
			Fraunofer IESE*
            
            Towards Recognizing the Emotions of Developers Using
			Biometrics: The Design of a Field Study (short paper,
			20&nbsp;min.)<br>
            *Daniela Girardi, Filippo Lanubile, Nicole Novielli,
			Luigi Quaranta, and Alexander Serebrenik<br>
			University of Bari and Eindhoven University of Technology*

12:00–12:30 **Panel Discussion**

12:30–02:00 Lunch Break

02:00–03:00 **Emotional Awareness in SE for Practice** <!-- – Chair: Person -->

            A Longitudinal Study on the Maintainers' Sentiment of a
			Large Scale Open Source Ecosystem (20&nbsp;min.)<br>
            *Isabella Ferreira, Kate Stewart, Daniel German, and
			Bram Adams<br>
			Polytechnique Montréal, University of Victoria, and
			Linux Foundation*

            Emotions in Software Practice: Presentation vs. Coding
			(short paper, 20&nbsp;min.)<br>
            *Ricardo Colomo-Palacios, Terje Samuelsen, and
			Cristina Casado-Lumbreras<br>
			Østfold University College and
			Universidad Complutense de Madrid*

            Developers' Sentiment and Issue Reopening
			(short paper, 20&nbsp;min.)<br>
            *Jonathan Cheruvelil and Bruno da Silva<br>
            Amazon and California Polytechnic State University,
			San Luis Obispo*

03:00–03:30 **Invited Talk**

            TBD<br>
			*Robert Feldt<br>
            Chalmers University of Technology and
			The University of Gothenburg*

03:30–04:00 Coffee Break

04:00–05:10 **Demo Tools and Methodology** <!-- – Chair: Person -->

            EMTk — The Emotion Mining Toolkit (short paper,
			20&nbsp;min.)<br>
            *Fabio Calefato, Filippo Lanubile, Nicole Novielli, and
			Luigi Quaranta<br>
			University of Bari*

            What Software Engineering can Learn from Research on
			Affect in Social Psychology (short paper,
			20&nbsp;min.)<br>
            *Lucas Gren, Per Lenberg, and Karolina Ljungberg<br>
            Chalmers University of Technology, The University of
			Gothenburg, and Saab AB*

            Fostering Positive Affects in Software Development
			Environments using Extended Reality (short paper,
			20&nbsp;min.)<br>
            *Rohit Mehra, Vibhu Saujanya Sharma, Vikrant Kaulgud, and
			Sanjay Podder<br>
			Accenture Technology Labs*

            Empirical Analysis of Affect of Merged Issues on
			GitHub (poster, 10&nbsp;min.)<br>
            *Marco Ortu, Michele Marchesi, and Roberto Tonelli<br>
			Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering,
			University of Cagliari*

05:10–05:20 Closing Panel

----------------------------------------------------------------------
